1.Please explain What is hotcarrier injection (HCI)effect in short channel MOSFET.The HCI may give rise.to whatkind of impact on MOsFETdevice? NO

啊电的需的能氢小了室穴，国如燕地动更生

热或治子改应.热我流是能是的费米能级高作以上的或流，这些戴流与晶格效了热手衡状态，在短沟道M比E中，如果的/空穴的能氢之到至起

有购下降，之 $S i - S i O _ { 2 }$ 势生（的3、1DV），就问通物氧化层，夏中会陷 $S i g \approx 0 . 1 3 2$

追四后喊小，互城，简阱，坚时间秋累，会虾列影响，闲重丘向已方白雪和，路导运化，正国

2. Three Idlin-Vg curves of an NMOS are giverl below. The curves are measured under isde t中话 $I _ { 1 \xi W b }$ 增大 different temperature condition of-40℃，25℃,and_75℃,respectively.The VDs $\mathrm { \Delta V _ { D S } }$ 0.1V. v 强效应，武连度饰和

(1) The curve become slow variation at larger Vg bias,please explain why (l) lne cui ve vtuuit siuw vaiiauvi ai iui gui $\mathrm { v _ { G } }$ cuv,P 13

(2) Please mark the corresponding temperature to the three curves,Tl=?,T2=?,and T=?,and explain the reason why the Idlin-curve changes at different temperature.

<!-- image-->

$$
I _ { D } = \frac { z } { L } \approx \Delta t C a [ ( N a _ { 2 } - y _ { 7 } ) V _ { D } z \frac { 3 } { 2 } y _ { 1 } ]
$$

$$
\begin{array} { c } { \frac { d U _ { 2 } } { d T } = \frac { Z } { 1 } \cos [ \cos ( \sqrt { 1 0 } \cos \frac { \sin \alpha } { \cos \frac { \alpha } { \cos \frac { \alpha } { \cos \frac { \alpha } { \cos \frac { \alpha } { \sin \alpha } } } } } ) U _ { 2 } \sin ^ { 2 } \frac { \alpha } { \cos \frac { \alpha } { \cos \frac { \alpha } { \cos \frac { \alpha } { \cos \frac { \alpha } { \sin \alpha } } } } } } \\ { - \frac { Z } { 1 } \sin \alpha \cos \frac { \alpha \sin \alpha } { \cos \frac { \alpha \sin \alpha } { \cos \frac { \alpha } { \cos \frac { \alpha } { \cos \frac { \alpha } { \sin \alpha } } } } } } \end{array}
$$

$V _ { G S } - V _ { T }$ 好大， $\frac { d 2 b } { d t } < 0$

书 $V _ { C E } = \frac { 1 } { \sqrt { 1 } }$ 正海$\because \sum \limits _ { i = 1 } ^ { n } x _ { i } = \frac { 2 ^ { n } - 3 ^ { n } } { 3 }$ $\because x = \frac { 1 } { 2 }$

V）-V8好 $\frac { \alpha ^ { 2 } - 2 } { \alpha + 1 } > 0$

$$
\frac { d I _ { p } } { d \tau } = \frac { I _ { p } } { d \tau _ { 1 } } \cdot \frac { d v _ { n } } { d \tau } - \frac { z } { L } u _ { n } \cos v _ { p } \frac { d V _ { 1 } } { d \tau }
$$

3.Latch up is an important problem in ICreliability.It couldcaused by the forward conduction ofthelow side NMQS bedydiodein BUCK topology.Basic BUCK topology is shown below: high side MOS isE/DPMoSlightdoping dra),owside MOS is NLDMOs.(1) IfP-sub is adopted,alldevicelocated in NWELL,please draw the device cross-section view and explain thepotentialrisk oflatch-up. (2)Adding guard ring is one effective way to prevent latch-up.If a PowerIC could separate into4 parts,we know powerdevice isa strongcurrent.injection source andthere are some sensitive analog circuits included in Controlpart,toprevent latchup triggering, please draw the appropriate guard ring structure in the layout below,mark the guard ring doping type and electric potential.

<!-- image-->

Nt过事，

<!-- image-->

<!-- image-->

4.Fora P-type polysilicon Gate MOSFET,assume Eg(Polysilicon)=Eg(silicon)=1.1eV,the Fermi Ievel $\mathtt { E } _ { \mathtt { F } }$ is overlapingwith valence band $\operatorname { E } _ { \mathrm { V } } ,$ neglect the chargein the gate oxide.The energy band of the MOSFETis shown in.the following figure when no voltage is applied to the gate, questions:

(1）Why the energy band ofsurface bends up when no voltage is applied to the gate? TheMOSFET is NMOS orPMOS?Enhanced-Modeor Depletion-Mode？

(2）Calculate flat-band voltage. $\mathrm { \Omega } [ \mathrm { f } \ \mathrm { V } { \mathrm { g } } = \mathrm { V } _ { \mathrm { T } } ,$ half of gate voltage drops on oxide, the remaining.on the surface of the silicon,find out the threshold Voltage of the device.

3)If change theP-typepolysilicon into theN-typeand alltheotherconditionsare unchanged,calculate the threshold voltage.

$y _ { M g } = w _ { m } - w _ { S }$ >0旁

<!-- image-->

Ps，

N型导体NpMO

Pp=a8-0.55eN=0.3seN

$$
V _ { F B } = - \frac { 0 . 8 e v - 0 . 5 5 0 v + 0 . 1 e v } { e }
$$

$V _ { T } = V _ { F B } + 2 \phi _ { F B } .$ 对NtyPe多品醛， $E _ { C } = E _ { F }$

<!-- image-->

$$
= - 0 . 3 5 V .
$$

$$
P _ { F P } = 0 . 3 5 0 w
$$

$$
V _ { T } = 0 . 3 5 + 0 . 2 5 \times 2
$$

5u

Notice that the saturate current bend up when the $\mathfrak { V } _ { \mathrm { D S } }$ is large (note that the slope is more cliffy than that caused by channel modulation effect,and the device have not reached the breakdown point).Explain the mechanism of the bending up current. Uivunuv..pv...

(2) The curves bend up to adifferent extent when different gate voltage is applied,why? Please draw.out the bendingup current versus gate voltage and explain the reason. uiuv.vui

(3) Explain how does the value of bending up current affect the performance of a MOSFET.

<!-- image-->

6In the lowvoltageswitching powersupplychip,Synchronous rectificationscheme is widely used.The basic topology ofbuck regulationcircuit is shown in Fig.(a),theinput signalof gate is given in Fig. (b). Draw the voltage and current ofN node, give out the time sequence requirement to the VGi、VG2 gate input signal.

<!-- image-->  
Figure (a)

<!-- image-->

7.The figure below shows a Trench VDMOS structure.(1) Draw the parasitic capacitance of the VDMOS.(2)Give out the definition of Ciss,Crssand Coss,and draw the curve of Ciss, Crss and Coss versus Vds.(3) Ciss=3000pF,Crss=500pF,The DC supply voltage $\mathrm { V _ { D C } } { = } 8 0 \mathrm { V } ,$ the conduction voltage drop of VDMOS can be.ignored and assuming that the Ciss and Crss remain constant,calculate the total driving current to drive MOS on in 50ns.(Vgs=10V). (4) Which capacitance will restrict the Switching frequency of VDMOS. How can we improve it?

<!-- image-->

8Pleas drawoutthe inergate votagecollecorvotage andcurrent wavefomduring the IGBT turm-off interval $( \mathrm { L } _ { 0 }$ is the parasitic inductance of IGBT's collector),then please describe thedifference betweenIGBTtur-offand VDMOStun-off.IGT $F ^ { \prime } _ { 1 } , V _ { \max }$ 关断的不同

<!-- image-->

9. In a Power IC, we use three integrated resistor in series to form a resistor divider,there are three solutions, as is shown in the picture below.Questions: (1) Please analyse the advantage and disadvantage of the three solutions; (2) If Vx=5V(low voletage)，which one is the best solution?If Vx=30V (high voletage)，which one is the best solution? Sohutioni:

<!-- image-->

Soution2:

<!-- image-->

Solution3:

<!-- image-->